---
layout: post
title: Happy Twosday!
categories: announcement thoughts
tags: [audio] 
---

It's 2022-02-22! Well, that's the ISO 8601 format. In the U.S., it's 2/22/2022, and across Europe it's 22/02/2022, with the palindromic power paralleling the twos, and zeroes, too.

## On Arbitrariness

As I mentioned in my [New Year's Post](https://maxliu.me/thoughts/2022/01/01/its-2022-now-what.html){:target="_blank"}, there's a bit of giddiness we feel at such an arbitrary date. I've been reading *Atomic Habits*, which states: "If you aren't sure when to start your habit, try the first day of the week, month, or year." Sure, New Year's resolutions often fail, but when else are you going to make a resolution? A first day can be a great time to mentally refresh. It's an opportunity to reflect on the previous month and better understand your own progress and setbacks. It's also a great time to think about the future. What do I want the next month to look like? What did I miss out on last week that I should do this week? I think the same thing applies to arbitrary dates, like Twoday!

Of course, nothing cosmically special will happen today because of it. It's not a superstitious or numerological thing I'm after. It's just aesthetically pleasant. And sometimes that's enough to change things.

## On Twos

So let's celebrate Twosday, too. As written in *Concrete Mathematics*: "All primes are odd, except 2, which is the oddest of them all." Two is tough to talk about. It's not *fundamental* like the additive identity (0) or multiplicative identity (1). Yet it's also so small that its unique properties are unsurprising. But here are some cool things about two:

Base-2 is used by nearly all computers. It's the smallest number usable as a base, unless you cheat the definitions a little and count tally marks as base-1. The idea of "on-off" is central to digital communication.

And I think of square waves! As an electronic musician, I love their distinct, full sound. Compared to the buzzy harshness of a saw, the square wave is a real jack-of-all-trades. The sawtooth is more like a string instrument, whereas the square wave is more like a clarinet or oboe. There's a clear physical explanation for this too, which is especially apparent in slow-motion videos:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/6JeyiM0YNo4" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
<br>

You can also get a nice two-laden definition for a square wave using the floor function!

$x(t) = 2\left(2\lfloor ft\rfloor - \lfloor 2 ft\rfloor \right) + 1$

It's also a passing curiosity that $2+2$, $2 \cdot 2$, $2^{2}$, $2 \uparrow \uparrow 2$, are all identical, equal to... two!

Two, too, can be used to make some fun nested sequences. See how $\sqrt{2 + \sqrt{2 +\sqrt{2 + \sqrt{2 + ...}}}}$ converges to... well, you can guess by now. $\sqrt{2}^{\sqrt{2}^{\sqrt2^{...}}}$, too, converges to... two! There's a simple proof of these two that I'll leave for the reader.

And lastly, it'd only be right to announce my work, too. This EP, *On Twos*, compiles nine (yeah, I know) of my older, shorter tunes. I started off with some longer songs, but eventually cut down until I had a super tight, fast-paced EP. I'll take a break now... see you in 200 years!

<iframe style="border: 0; width: 100%; height: 120px;" src="https://bandcamp.com/EmbeddedPlayer/album=1157135895/size=large/bgcol=333333/linkcol=0f91ff/tracklist=false/artwork=small/transparent=true/" seamless><a href="https://wetua.bandcamp.com/album/on-twos">On Twos by wetua</a></iframe>